So back here in our Workflow definition file,
it would make sense to kind of cache these dependencies
the first time we install them.
So here in this first job when we install dependencies
we wanna cache those dependencies
so that the cached dependencies can be used
in subsequent jobs and also in subsequent Workflow runs
unless these dependencies changed and must be reinstalled.
Now to add caching,
we must add a new step before the step
that actually produces the files that should be cached.
So the caching step should execute here
before we have that dependency installation step.
I'll give it a name of cache dependencies,
and then here we want to use an action
the cache action in version free, in my case
that's published by the GitHub team.
This action needs some configuration with the with key.
And to be precise you must specify the path or paths
that should be cached.
Now again, you learn about all the details
in the official documentation
and there you also find plenty of examples
for usage with different kinds of workflows and projects.
But in the end, you always have to specify a path
or multiple paths
that point at the files and folders that should be cached.
Now here in this case on this Linux runner
for the node dependencies that we are installing here
it's this path that should be cached.
This is the path used by this npm tool
for its internal dependency cache,
which we now wanna store with help of the cache action
across jobs and across workflows.
Because that's important,
npm actually already builds a cache
that contains the dependencies that were installed
and that cache would be used
if you then install the dependencies again in the future.
But since different jobs used different machines
and different Workflow executions, of course
also use different machines
that automatically created cache
by default would not be stored and used.
By using the cache action here,
we tell GitHub Actions in the end
with help of that action
that this npm created cache folder should be stored
in some place in GitHub's cloud,
so on some GitHub server
and should be reused in other jobs
and other Workflow executions.
So that's the path here
of the folder that should be cached and stored by GitHub.
And then we must give this cache a key.
And the idea is that this key will be used
for retrieving the cache in the future
and recreating that folder on the runner machine
based on that cache managed by GitHub in the future.
But the key also indicates
whether the cache should be discarded
because it must be recreated
because, for example, some dependency changed.
Therefore, you wanna give this cache a name
that's not fully static and hard coded
but that contains some dynamic element
that can change and that will change
whenever the cache should be discarded.
Hence here we can again include
such a GitHub Actions expression
with that syntax you already know.
And here I'll use another function provided
by GitHub Actions, the hash files function
which simply produces a unique hash value
based on a file path we pass to it
and that hash value will change whenever
the file we pass to it changes.
So the contents of the file change.
And here we pass that file path between single quotes.
And the path here is package dot lock dot Jason,
no matter where it is located,
so, no matter in which sub folder it might be,
actually this collects all package lock Jason files
and builds a hash on the combination of all these files.
Now, package lock dot Jason simply is this file
that specifies all the dependencies of this project
and the exact versions of these dependencies.
And the idea here is that whenever this file changes
because we updated a dependency, for example,
the hash that will be produced
by hash files will not be the same as before.
And therefore we end up with a different hash key indicating
to GitHub Actions and this cache action
that the currently stored cache should be discarded
and not be used, and therefore instead
we would reinstall the dependencies.
That's how this works.
Now, of course, install dependencies will always execute,
this step won't be skipped the way this Workflow is set up
but since we either reinstate
this npm cache folder or not,
the npm ci command will automatically use
this npm folder here.
If it exists, it will be used.
If it doesn't exist, dependencies will be re-downloaded.
That's how this works.
Now, the cache step here will also automatically
look at this folder after the job finished
and put that folder into the cache
if it didn't have that folder before.
So the cache step does not just execute here
but also after the overall job finished
to update the cache
so that if new dependencies were installed
the new dependencies will be cached again,
this is how that works.
And of course, the way you use this cache action
will depend on which project setup you have.
Different project setups
and different packages and programming languages
have different files and folders
that should be cached to speed up your workflows.
That's why you have all these official examples here
so that you can find an example that fits your use case.
This is how you can do it for npm.
And with that done, we must repeat this step here
in all the jobs that do install dependencies
because with that,
we're managing the cache for our dependencies in this job
but we also need it in the build job
because there I'm also installing dependencies.
So we simply copy that step here into the build job
and make sure you get the indentation right.
And with that we're also going to cache
our dependencies here.
And what's important is
that the cache action actually uses one central cache.
So if we put our dependencies into the cache
in the test job already
the build job will use that same cache.
So it's not managing different job specific caches
but one central cache
which is also available across Workflow executions.
So if dependencies were cached in one job
there will be available in other jobs
and other Workflow execution cycles.
And with that done, we added caching.
And now if we stage those changes
we can create a new commit,
added caching and what you'll see now when I push this
and when the Workflow executes again, therefore
is that it will still install the dependencies
in the first job because we haven't cached them before.
But the build job should then already
use those dependencies.
And if we would then run the Workflow again thereafter
even the test job should use the dependencies
in the future as long as no dependency changed.
So let's see this in action here.
Let's take a look at the test job.
And you see here that again install dependencies
is taking some time
but what you'll also notice
is that under cache dependencies
it says that it did not find any cache.
But then here
it's executing this post cache dependencies step,
which was added automatically
by the cache action we added.
And here you see that it's saved the cache successfully.
And that's the key that was generated this year.
That's the key that was generated.
Now with that cache saved in the build step here
you see that install dependencies was way faster.
You see it's way faster
because it's just taking four seconds now
instead of the 12 or 15 seconds it took before
because under a cache dependencies,
it actually found a cache this time
it downloaded the cache and restored it
and then installed dependencies
still went through all the installation steps.
But internally, npm used that cache folder
that was recreated by the caching step.
So that's how we can save time here.